your reaction let's get uh the take from
Maran bashara Al jaz's senior political
analyst he comes to us from Paris um you
know let's get your reaction to this uh
breaking news uh of uh Hamas submitting
its response to this outlined this us
ceasefire
proposal that's certainly a positive
good news that the Hamas decided to
engage uh with the Proposal with the
American initiative based on apparently
an Israeli
proposal it's uh after it comes after
Hamas has welcomed uh the UN Security
Council
resolution uh adopting that American
proposal which as you just
outlined uh does have three phases but
eventually needs to lead to a permanent
ceasefire and the withdrawal of all
Israeli forces from Gaza now the past 48
hours we've heard
different um declarations from various
Israeli sources including to reers
saying that uh this proposal is going to
allow Israel to achieve its War
objectives which usually means in an
Israeli News speak destroying
Hamas and I think now we see uh sort of
a response from the other side from the
Palestinian from Hamas side basically
dilating uh how it sees uh this proposal
moving forward and how it could be
implemented in a way that
safeguards Palestinian rights in Gaza
and I think uh so far we haven't seen
the full response yet but I think what
is important is uh for Hamas apparently
are two things uh one that this proposal
needs to move from one phase to another
phase and in the process there would be
a ceasefire and that this proposal does
lead to a permanent ceasefire so this is
a clear red line for Hamas that it's not
going to negotiate over release of
captives in order for Israel to resume
the
War I think it's probably going to ask
for uh Ironclad American guarantees for
that movement from one phase to another
and second uh the way I see it from uh
the initial
response is that not only does Hamas
wants to see Israel withdraw uh from the
occupied Gaza Strip but it wants to make
sure that Israel is not at The Crossings
again as you know the past uh couple of
weeks Israel has occupied uh the
Philadelphia Corridor to the uh
opposition of both Egypt and the
Palestinian Authority because Israel is
not supposed to be there there's an
agreement in fact between Israel and
Egypt on that issue that this would be a
Palestinian Egyptian border even if
there's an oversight by Israel on it so
I think in order to first uh make sure
that Israel withdraws from The Crossings
and two that Israel is in is unable to
impose another Siege on Gaza if you
remember these were one of the red lines
by uh the United States eventually but
they were adoped by the G7 uh foreign
ministers meeting in Japan when they
said among others that Israel cannot
maintain a security Zone but it also
cannot impose another Siege on Gaza once
a ceasefire is reached and uh the road
or the pathway towards negotiations over
a final settlement is on way so these
two two issues that ensure uh gaza's
safety and
its freedom from another Israeli Siege
are clearly on the books for Hamas in
order to uh save face at least in the uh
in in the aftermath if you will overseas
fire Mar Bash